

Speaker 4 (Barani Rajakumar): Hey, everyone. My name is Barani Rajakumar. I'm the founder and CEO of Transfer Inc. We specialize in knowledge transfer by creating job training simulations that help folks get on a pathway to upward career mobility.


Speaker 4 (Barani Rajakumar): Sure. First and foremost, our mission is to help people get onto a career path to upward mobility and electricians have a career path to a job via apprenticeships. Not only that, but these are jobs that are essential for every community. They're the professionals that wire up schools, hospitals, your homes. They just play a very critical role in keeping the community powered. Additionally, we have an infrastructure that's a little outdated. The demand for this skill set is not going to go away any time in the near future. That checks a lot of the boxes that we look for in terms of deciding what training we want to get involved in because it has a clear pathway to a job that pays a family-sustaining wage. The other thing that pushed us over the edge is we had the fortune of meeting Bo and his team at Trio and they've just been a phenomenal partner. They are super opinionated about what great training is. It's very clear in the way that they train folks on their own and prepare people for work at Trio and other companies. They were also very clear about the value that hands-on training simulations could provide to them. So, all that Bo will go into more of that detail, but they saw just the amount of savings, for example, that it could bring on consumables. This was before cost has started skyrocketing.

Speaker 4 (Barani Rajakumar): We met actually. So we have been working in Texas, working with workforce, government boards and institutions of higher ed. And they made a suggestion today. I think your mission would be aligned with what trio is doing. You should talk to him. And so we had an initial conversation. And because we focus on knowledge transfer, you know, it necessarily requires us to work with experts. So we are always looking for domain experts such as Bo and his team, because what we want to do is we want to create this, you know, essentially like a pre apprenticeship kind of training program in virtual reality, where someone is allowed to make mistakes and learn from the mistakes in real time. And there's a digital coach that talks to them about how they can improve their performance to meet the job requirements standards. And so Bo and his team were just like incredibly knowledgeable and passionate. As he mentioned, they have an academy a step further to not just have a traditional manual and training program, but they created like an entire academy around it. Hundreds of people with a mission of saying, Hey, anyone that we train that we don't have a job for, we're going to let our other employers in the area recruit them. And so there was that mission alignment from day one. They're incredible subject matter experts. And so from our, from our perspective, it was, it was right decision to make because they're there and that's it's helped us achieve our mission of getting people onto a pathway to employability as possible.
