Barani Rajakumar: Yeah. Well, first of all, thanks for having me on the show. I'm to be here as a company. We have a mission to help everyone get on pathway to upward mobility. And the reason that we have that mission is because we're really lucky to live in America. The dream is about, you know, being optimist and being able to pursue whatever endeavors that you wish. One of the keys to being able to pursue your dreams is to have financial freedom. So we focus on the skill trades because there is a unique opportunity today where, you know, you can get on a career path to upward mobility with jobs that pay somewhere between 50 to $100,000 a year, you know, very, very early in your career. And they don't require a four year degree. You know, you don't have to take on student loan debt. That's a really, really great place to start. You know, I think one of the things I learned early on is, you know, your first job is not going to be your last job. So I actually started my career in fast food, earning a minimum wage before I went on to work in finance. And then ultimately, you know, became the CEO of startup. I think the skill trades offers a unique opportunity to get millions of people on a pathway to upward mobility. It's not for everybody. And I'm not going to sugarcoat it to everybody who's listening. It's hard work. It really is hard work. Sometimes being in the skill trades, it's, you know, working in the elements. Sometimes you're working in all different locations. You could be a lineman in a bucket truck. And there was just an aftermath of a hurricane. Are you working in the wind? Are you working in the streets? Or you're working in plumbing? You're looking residential or commercial? It's not, quote, unquote, an easy path. And it's not for everybody.


Barani Rajakumar: I do think a lot of kids obviously look at that social media path and they see the Mr. Beese and they see the top influencers that are doing string well. Of course, that takes a lot of work. Mr. Beese didn't just kind of start yesterday. He's been doing this for years and years and years and took him a long time. So I do think kids look maybe at that path. It's much easier. I don't have to go into the trades. I don't have to get dirty. The other misconception here is that, you know, by 45, 50, they've been doing this for 20 odd years, you're just going to be in bad shape. Meanwhile, on the flip side, a lot of the tradespeople, iron workers, they're really good shape. It keeps them in shape. There was an article for a woman who is a turbine technician. She climbs those towers every other day. She makes about seventy three thousand dollars a year. And she's got like four or five kids. I was just an odd that the work that she does, but it's all that climbing the ladder. It keeps her in shape. But she's doing great stuff that she normally she wouldn't be able to get into, let's say, another career and she has this opportunity. There's so many. I mean, I can spend the next hour just chewing your ear off all the people, women, men in the trades who are doing extremely well and are showcasing this on social media. I think social media really over the last handful of years, it shows a day in the life of a well-dirt electrician, a plumber, someone in an HVAC. It gets kids excited. It's possible they're seeing the opportunity to make over six figures. That wasn't the case years ago. So I think it's in a much better light. Also, the Wall Street Journal said that Gen Z is the next tool belt generation. I say it's coined. It's exciting times. I think to be in the trades.




Speaker 2: It's a really fun part of the job. So we use XR as a medium, the experience you're describing with virtual reality, virtual reality's just come a long way in the last decade, I would say, five years ago when we launched our first product, a lot of people were really skeptical, not willing to believe that you could train somebody in VR and today it's fairly well accepted that it's a very engaging medium, everything is in 3D as you would normally see in your day-to-day life and you can use your hands to interact with objects which just kind of adds to the realism, to the presence of it all. And I'll tell you something, even though what we have today is just leaps and bounds better than five years ago, I mean, it's nothing compared to the next five years. The things that are in R&D are wildly engaging, you wouldn't even believe it that you were learning, but you are, we have an efficacy team, we have a learning intelligence team that actually runs studies and asks people, how long did they feel that they were in virtual reality and they'll often underestimate it, right? Because they'll say, oh, I think I was in there for X amount of time and the reality is they were in there for two or three X amount of time because they're just enjoying themselves. There's a lot of technological advancements such as AI that are going to make the interactivity of a learning experience more compelling than it's ever been before. So we're excited about that. We're also excited for the big number of people that are coming out like yourself that are supporting this conversation and making it less taboo to have a conversation about alternative pathways. You mentioned micro, which I agree, he's just done so much for raising awareness for what's out there that people might have not considered before we partnered with an individual by the name of Chris Gardner. So I don't know if you've seen this movie called the pursuit of happiness. He is another kind of living, breathing embodiment of the fact that you can be successful even if you don't go get a four year degree. So if you've seen the movie, then you kind of know that at one point he was homeless. He's part of our arms, services went on to have professional life that was very successful. You mentioned SkillsUSA. We're super excited to share that in 2025, we are partnering with SkillsUSA to help build that pipeline of people going into the trades and also competing in that competition that you mentioned because one of the most powerful things I think about skills is that all the major manufacturing companies and employers in the skilled trades support SkillsUSA and so they're gonna be there, they're gonna be able to find out about you and extend that opportunity directly.



Speaker 2: Our partners include high schools, two-year colleges, unemployment offices, nonprofits. And so it's usually our partners that can provide the credential and certification. We are creating pre-employment programs that will be kind of industry approved. That's for next year for sure. Yes, there are kind of, at least for the entry-level skills or fundamental skills, there are national standards that already exist. Like people do OSHA training or you might get a certification from NCCR and things like that. So that stuff does exist. And apprenticeship programs are directly aligned with these kind of credentials. But I wanted to kind of just build upon what you were saying where you got this question from an individual about how to select what trade to go into. And I think career exploration is a great way to try a variety of options. But then the other thing to think about is what's the demand for that trade in your area? Because the country is huge. Residential construction may be booming in one state. Meanwhile, in another state, what's really needed is something more aligned with the line workers, for instance, or elevator maintenance. So I would definitely give some thought into what's in demand, what the next kind of five years looks like. And then I think the other kind of thing to consider is what kind of, how does that match with your day-to-day priorities? Because if you are interested, for example, in becoming a business owner, there might be certain verticals that lend themselves to that will be more than others.


Speaker 2: It's a great question. So the reason we partner with high schools, two-year colleges, unemployment officers, and nonprofits is they have a mission of training people, and they also have a budget. And so that way, they can help fund the exploration and the training on behalf of those that are interested. So that's kind of why we have this, I would say, B2G kind of model where we partner closely with the government to help us support the needs of the local workforces. I would say if we are currently not in your region, your county, we have a LinkedIn page that gets monitored every single day. It's just transferring on LinkedIn. You should message us, and we will absolutely love to send somebody to your part of the country and raise awareness and help find out how we can make it work. The reason we have that model, by the way, is because a lot of the target population that we work with, they may or may not have the ability to avert the training on their own. That's why we have that model where we've got other people that have a vested interest in helping support the training in their community.


Speaker 2: We visit employers. We work with employers. I've got video footage that I could show you from my phone where tons and tons of manufacturing facilities and things like that. Everything that we do is employer-driven. Go back to what you were saying about how realistic it looks and feels and things like that. The technology is one component of it. The other component of it is actually having these conversations with employers to understand what good looks like. Because our mission is we tell them, look, we want people to be able to come in here, blow the doors off of this interview. We have to prepare them. What are you going to ask them? What are they going to be able to do when they come meet you for the first time? And that's where we're able to create this experience that mirrors what's going to happen in the interview process or when you get on the site. One of the stories that really took my breath away is the story of a gentleman who was in prison. I think he was sent into something like 60 years. But he got out a little bit early prior to getting out. While he was in prison, he saw people with the headset on. And he was kind of like, where are those folks doing? And then he found out they're doing virtual reality. They're training for a job so that when they finish their sentence, they can be employable. Raised his hands that he could do it. And he ended up learning a skill while he was in prison. But he got out and then he went across the street and worked at the manufacturing company across the street where he served about 30 years. And what was powerful about that is he said, look, I was able to come in here. And have a successful interview and get this job because I had already done it before in the simulation. So I was prepared. And I think he was just very surprised at what he was doing in real life was kind of like what he had already trained for. And that was a perfect scenario of what we were trying to achieve. And so it's always wonderful when you hear those stories.


Speaker 2: Absolutely. So we started in Alabama, even though we are headquartered in New York City. Our very first customer was the Alabama Justice Department of Training. They were training people for jobs at Lockheed Martin. That initial co-order, let's say 20 people, you know, about five folks who were women. And then separately, we worked with a two year college who had a student. Woman was a single parent mom. This is actually during COVID. She had to learn a skill to get employment. And what she learned, she learned the skill set to become a diesel mechanic. And so you wouldn't necessarily think that like, oh, you know, hey, this is an obvious choice for this person. But like, first of all, the diesel technicians were in demand where she was. And so that's why the training was offered for that. So she finished training, ended up going into the career to become a diesel mechanic, take care of herself and her daughter. So what is really kind of interesting about the opportunity here is employers want to hire folks regardless of their gender, what they look like, and that stuff. Like if you can demonstrate that you've got the skills and you can add value, you're going to be hired.


Speaker 2: So that is why, you know, what we're building, we call the classroom to career pathway. And so that's why we partner with the folks that we partner with because it helps kind of de-risk the entire process. Right. So if you're an employer, naturally, you're kind of skeptical. Like you get a ton of resumes, you have no idea what people's intentions are, who's who and what's what when our partners are able to say, like, no, look, let us show you the commitment. Like this person actually went through for expiration. They opted in to this pathway. They completed the training. They got the certification. Now, all of a sudden, like you have some credibility that you've committed. You've made a commitment that makes you more attractive to the employer. And I hear what you're saying with respect to, you know, some employers want to see, you know, that you've had years of experience, but I will say when you can come through a well-defined program and employers already trust they're willing to take a bet on folks who come out of a program that they already are familiar with.


Speaker 2: That's great advice learning something new and Even learning something new every day can help you with your career in the future And it's about putting the time effort into whatever you're going to be So if you're gonna be the best plumber, well, you got to put a lot of time into that You want to be the best welder you don't put time to that if you want to transition from the field Into entrepreneurship, that's a whole nother skill set that you have to learn So you need to double down and you need to get around people who are successful Especially in the trades who maybe have been a tradesperson for 25 30 years That is successful when you want to be like that person get around people get a mentor get around people who are positive in Good headspace that can really sort of mold you into where you want to be because you don't have to reinvent the wheel It's been done before and just get around the right people it will set you in the right track

Speaker 2: Brony if we don't find out more information about transfer, what are some websites that can go to social media? We're most active on LinkedIn if you were to look up transfer on LinkedIn You would find us we monitor our page every single day and would love to have a conversation You know like I said if transfer is not available Yet in your region feel free to pay us or if you even see things on our website They're like hey, you know, I'd love for you to consider this occupation that occupation You know would love to just continue the conversation and build this thing together

