Barani Rajakumar: Thanks, Everett. All right. Hey, Eddie. Good to see you. Thanks, everyone, for making the time to hear what we have to say today. Like Everett mentioned, my name is Barani Rajakumar. I'm the CEO and founder of Transfer Inc. And I've got a few minutes here. So I wanted to bring in one of our favorite partners, Eddie On. Eddie, before we jump into a little bit of Q&A, I want to just share a little about your background and Brightline.

Speaker 2 (Barani): That's really interesting, Eddie. I think a lot of people might be critical when kind of thinking about the the government as an innovator or an early adopter of technology. And here you were saying you've figured out a way to kind of partner with existing agencies and finding a new pathway to help people help young people, help youth get on a career pathway. What would happen to these youth if they didn't have this opportunity? What typically happens to your target population and why is this important? Like why did you choose to spend your time doing this as opposed to anything else you could have done?


Speaker 2 (Barani): Sure, I'll say one sentence on it and then I think we're almost out of time, but I want to ask you one more question that I think will be relevant to the audience. So you know like Eddie said we created these training simulations and we didn't intentionally create them as a game. We work with employers to make sure that whatever training is included is modeled after what they will be expected to do in the real world. As a previous guest said, you know, reality is better than extended reality and so employers feel the same way. I mean who cares if you can do it in VR if you can't do it in real life. And so that's what we try to do is we try to model actual jobs and areas that you will be asked to do on the job interview. And so we're really excited to work with Eddie to give young students and the younger generation workforce an opportunity to practice these skills, master them, go to a job interview and then get the job. 



Barani: Yeah, you know, I definitely agree with that. And what Jacob was saying about adoption is just people have to put it on. Usually what we've seen happen is once people try and experience, they like immediately, you know, their mind just gets flooded with like 1000 ideas, which I'm sure everyone on this call has experienced as well. And so that kicks off like a budgeting discussion. And so I think the other barrier is just a lot of organizations don't really know how to think about XR yet they're not they're like wow this is really amazing how do I justify this how do I talk to you know the CFO or corporate finance or my boss or whatever and actually make the business case for this and so I think those are the two two barriers but like the positive thing that we've seen is once people try the experience a lot of people just mentally commit and say like I must have this and then they kind of like figure out how to how to justify the budget afterwards. And then I think maybe let's talk a little bit about timeline next so talk about what you think the lasting legacy of 2020 and 2021 is going to be you know in past events I think it's easy to overstate what this is going to be when we look back on it but it is a transformative period for XR so you know when we're looking back in retrospect in a couple of years what is the legacy of this time period going to be for XR in your industries Dan why don't we start with you.

