
Barani Roger Kumar: Yeah. Thank you, Olivia, for inviting us to speak with with the group today. And for everyone, you know, we want to keep this as interactive as possible. So feel free if you have a question to just post it in the chat. Or you can also just shout out and we'll we'd love to kind of make this interactive. So like Olivia said, I'm joined by my colleague, Chris Johnson, CJ as we call him. And Rick and Holly are also with us helping us make sure this presentation goes smoothly. So we're going to kick it off with some introductions. And then I think Holly is also going to show a slide presentation when she gets a second. But I'll go ahead and kick things off. So like Olivia said, my name is Barani Roger Kumar. I started this company called Transfer Inc. And we specialize in with knowledge transfer, basically, guys probably watch your fair share of video lectures. And what we do is we use virtual reality to immerse people in learning experiences so that they can learn skills while doing things as opposed to kind of watching a lecture. So prior to starting the company, I actually in Gainesville, I moved to New York City and worked in finance. So you might be asking yourself, how did you go from finance into the world of virtual reality? And the answer is I was really just really focused on trying to figure out a way to help people get jobs. My first job was at Wendy's. And I share that in common with CJ, which he'll tell you about in a minute, I'm sure. And I remember the first time I got a paycheck and I thought it was the greatest thing ever. My parents worked really hard, but unfortunately, we just didn't have a great kind of economic situation. So I had to work from a pretty young age. And I just remember feeling freedom, being able to cash check and go movie tickets and go to Cold Stone and buy ice cream on Friday night. It was like the greatest thing in the world. So after working in New York City and finance for five years, I thought I would love to figure out a way to pay it forward. So I went to Carnegie Dillon, where I got my MBA, and I started a company called Learn Bop. And that did really well. And then at the same time kind of heard about virtual reality, mostly as a platform for video games. And I went to a gaming conference in San Francisco called GDC, Game Developers Conference. And I remember playing my first game in virtual reality, it was called Robo Recall. And I just thought this is the most unbelievable technology ever. And I don't think anybody knows what it's going to do for teaching and learning. So I'd like to go figure that out. So I'm going to share a little bit of that story with you today. But before we do, then we're also going to obviously kind of tell you as much as we can about the VR industry and answer your questions. But before we go down that path, I want to turn it over to CJ to introduce himself.


Barani Roger Kumar: Oh, the frosties are good. You can't put a price tag on that. That's right. They tried. Yeah, right. So like CJ was saying, we were both really attracted to the technology and certainly gaming is an obvious area for using it just by, I don't know if you guys have access to the chat or if you want to show your faces and say hello, but how many members of the audience have actually used virtual reality, either to play games or to do the roller coaster or to try a haunted house or anything. All right, here's a couple. Looks like Leslie, Jocelyn, Miriam, I'm missing some names. Tony, cool. Thanks everyone. Yeah, okay, cool. Like a fair amount of people. Shannon, not yet. We'll get you hooked up soon, I hope. And so, and for those who have tried it, feel free to just paste in the comment. What do you think of it? We'll tell you what we found. When starting the company, at the time, people were completely blown away by the experience. It's very immersive. It's unlike anything you've ever tried before, but some people would get sick. They would put on the headset and I don't know, CJ, if you heard stories about people, just kind of like, oh no, this is not for me. I don't want to do this anymore.

Barani Roger Kumar: Exactly. And so, I think one of the things to keep in mind is, technology can evolve really fast. So, while in early days, there were certainly people that just had their doubts about virtual reality and even augmented reality as a technology.

Barani 1: You got this big thing on your face. You look silly, you know, who wants to wear that thing. But if you fast forward to 2021, does anybody of us call now anyone who got a VR headset for Christmas? It was one of the hottest items for anyone in December. And so it's come a long way. And you know, you've heard the expression to a hammer, everything looks like a nail. Well, if you're trying to do good in the world, like you just try to find the good in every technology that you can find. And so I know everyone at Transfer looks at VR as like definitely a fun technology, but we look at it more importantly as a way that we can do a lot of good in the world. And the way that we hope to do good in the world is by enabling someone to put on the headset and actually experience a variety of different jobs, maybe to put on the headset and do like a pre-apprenticeship program, for example. So you get to do the job before you get the job. It's a way to kind of show employers that you can learn skills and that you know and that you know what you're doing. And there's lots of different applications for doing good. You know, people are using it for counseling as a way to do telemedicine, for example. Now you've got people kind of putting on VR headsets and you can do like a patient health care and how to take care of themselves. So the possibilities are really only gonna be limited by your imagination, which I think if you're fine in your shoes, that's a great place to be, right? Cause that means you can have your own ideas of how to use this technology and how to influence the industry as well. I don't know, CJ, what, you used to work at Tesla. So what are kind of applications that you think, you know, employers would hope to use this technology for, especially a place that advances Tesla?


Video Narration: TransferVR's automotive fundamentals provides trainees with immersive... Hands-on simulation-based training experiences to prepare them for work in the automotive field. Transfer developed the program with industry experts to create authentic experiences that introduce trainees to safe working procedures and tools they'll use on the job. After... Trainees log in, they move at their own pace through the hands-on learning simulations. The simulations allow trainees to gain experience, make mistakes, and the compression gauge clockwise, and build confidence in their abilities. During the instruction, trainees interact with the virtual coach to develop their skills. Keep turning. Great work. The trainees then demonstrate their knowledge through hands-on practice. The trainees receive a comprehensive foundation in automotive fundamentals across a broad range of topics, ranging from simple oil changes to brake pad service. Trainees gain an understanding of safety considerations to prepare them for the workplace. Simulation-based training can happen wherever and whenever needed without expensive industry equipment or expert personnel. Trainee's progress data is tracked and is immediately available for instructor review. When a trainee masters all of the simulations, they're ready to demonstrate their knowledge on the job.

Barani 1: Cool. Thanks, Holly. And so, when you guys think about how do you use this technology, hey, thanks for the feedback that I got. You guys think about how to use this technology. One of the things you may ask yourself is, where do you even begin? There's so many possibilities so many options. Certainly you could start from an entertainment perspective. I mean, that's a huge part of the opportunity in VR. We started by thinking about what's a problem that needs to be solved. And what we learned is that there are lots of jobs out there that do not necessarily reflect the impact necessarily require a four-year degree, but they pay really well. And a lot of folks just don't know they exist. And so what we thought is we wanted to help solve that problem. We wanted to help kind of match people to great job opportunities out there with great companies. And we thought VR be a way to help people, put on the headset and try those experiences. So the problem you may be trying to solve may not be related to job training. Maybe, for example, you find that people are bored. And so you wanna create a really fun and exciting experience for them. I mean, that's a problem that's definitely worth solving. But once you kind of figure out the problem, then that can help you kind of think about what's the solution to that problem? And that's probably gonna be a solution. And there's probably gonna be more than one. And then what I think we would encourage you to do is to test out your theory, test out your solution. So for us, we created a prototype and we then went around and allowed people to try it. And the very first prototype actually had nothing to do with manufacturing and that stuff. The very first experience we created, you learn how to be a bartender. And so it was kind of hilarious. Like people would put on this headset and they would learn how to make a daiquiri. And what we learned in that experience is that, it didn't matter what people were learning, they just really enjoyed learning. And that was like a really powerful insight that motivated us to keep going. And I'll tell you, it's hard. It's hard.

Barani 1: You know, especially when you're dealing with technology, you're going to deal with bugs and delays and not everything's going to be exactly the way you envision it. But if you, you know, keep trying and keep trying to get better and just keep trying to make an experience that excites people, if you're motivated and you're persistent, like chances are, like, you're going to find something that works. So that, you know, that's probably like one of the biggest pieces of advice that give you is just start, you know, just start and you're going to learn a lot more by trying something and failing than by not trying, you know, just by, you're going to learn a lot more by trying and failing than by just sitting by a whiteboard and coming up with, you know, 100 ideas. Because when your idea kind of meets contact with the end user, that's usually when you get the best feedback. And you know, ultimately for us, we're trying to help people, you know, get a job or find a career path and enroll in a two-year college program, for instance, that makes sense for them. So the way we measure outcomes is we measure the number of people that either acquire the skills and get employed or the number of people that try and experience and then enroll in a career track. So you can only manage what you measure. And so you want to be making sure that whatever you create, you're measuring some specific outcome, whether it's you're trying to put a smile on someone's face or you're trying to help them figure out what to do with their life. The more clear you are about what you're trying to measure, the easier it is for you to then go back to your solution and improve upon it and make it better. I don't know, Chris, if you have anything you want to add to that?

Barani 1: So right now we are focused on manufacturing and the skilled trades just because there's over a million jobs that are available in that industry. And we're still in the early days and getting our start. But healthcare is a huge area of opportunity. And so we will be going into that area later this year. One thing that I was at, I know we're talking to a group of people who's no stranger to startups. When you're a small company, one of the things that's super important to do is to stay focused. And it is, you know, I've got ADD, right? So like I want to chase every shiny object that's out there. But you know, that's one of the biggest temptations is to, you can get spread too thin when you do that. And so I think as a company, our focus is just to be really good at one thing. And once we've kind of mastered that skill area, we kind of move on to the next thing. There was another question here. Chris, do you see any questions you want to answer or anything we should answer?


Barani 1: Yep. And so definitely the applications are endless. There's a question here from Laney College. The question is about how employers are looking at XR apprentices, interns, and junior developers. The one thing I would say is that it takes a long time to really master your craft. I would think of becoming a developer, an XR developer, any kind of developer, really, in the same way that you think of becoming an artist. You've got to practice as much as you can, and you're going to learn new things every single day because in the technology space, things just grow pretty quickly and things are evolving really quickly. For the folks that are interested in apprenticeships and internships and that kind of thing, what I'd say is what employers are going to look at the most are your projects. So when you're interviewing with a company, one of the first things that they'll ask you is to share your portfolio of projects that you've worked on. They may want to see the things that you've built. They may want to see a video of the interactions that you created. Like you saw in the video that we showed you earlier, you can see the hand gestures and how people were moving and grabbing things when they were doing the oil change. Those are all things that will help an employer understand where you are in your development process and things like that. Aside from the projects, I think the other really interesting thing about the products is they say something about you. You guys probably...

Barani 1: picked up from this conversation that we are really passionate about helping somebody get a job. But if you were going to create an experience that was more, let's say like a video game, then that would kind of share with the employer that you're really interested in the gaming industry. And so the project that you share is, you know, representative of what you and your interests are as well. The other thing they're going to ask you when you interview is to share a problem that you solved, right? So technology can be tough and it can be frustrating and you can spend hours debugging and coding. And employers will want to hear every juicy detail of that story. And the more details you have, you know, the more real it is to the person who's interviewing you. The more personal it is, the more they know that it was really something that you worked on and that you helped fix as opposed to, you know, somebody else maybe. So thanks for that question. I hope I answered it. 


Barani 1: Yep, good question. So we use Unity and for folks who are unfamiliar with what Unity or Unreal is, these are gaming engines. And so all the graphics and, you know, interactions and things like that that you see are usually built with a gaming engine. One of the great benefits for folks on this call is that, you know, Unity is free and there's tons and tons and tons of lessons out there to help you learn how to become a developer in Unity. The other really interesting thing about that platform is it's not just for virtual reality. Like if you wanted to create a game for your mobile phone, you could use that platform for that as well. We use it because the Oculus Quest headset is essentially a mobile device. It uses an Android operating system. And so the Unity platform is just, it works really well with the Oculus. Unreal for sure has unbelievable graphics. You know, you probably experience Unreal gaming in when you played, if you've ever played video games on your Xbox or PC or anything like that. And it's a really powerful system as well. But for kind of the mobile platform, Unity just seems to be a quick, lightweight type of toolset that you could use. So thanks for that question.


Barani 1: All right. I'll try to answer that. I think at first people who are experts in the skilled trade used to look at virtual reality as this something that doesn't replace actual hands-on experience, which is 100% true. But by show of hands or chat message, how many people on this call have access to the heavy equipment, like a caterpillar loader, like those heavy equipment that you see on the highway when they're building a highway? Or how many people on this call have access to like a doctor's office right away? And so sure, the trade-off is it may not be real, but it's really convenient. You can put on the headset anywhere from the comfort of your home, while you're in your PJs, or in a classroom. And so you can still learn all the procedures and all the knowledge that goes into it. Now, of course, after you learn all those things and your confidence is through the roof because you've got the high score and all that stuff, you would still need to go and physically use the same tools and all that. But I think what a lot of experienced people, veterans, people who are going to retire soon, will say is that this is a great technology to engage younger people, people who weren't considering an opportunity in manufacturing skill trades or as a nurse or whatever. Now when they put on the headset, they can see what those options are like. That helps kind of get employers in the conversation. I mean, employers want to know how to communicate and relate to young people. And so that's a huge benefit that kind of outweighs, almost outweighs the downside of not being able to feel the heat of a welding machine. I mean, because at the end of the day, if you don't have people who are interested in working in your industry, that's a much bigger problem to solve. So thanks for that question.


Barani: Yeah, we haven't had too many bad experiences like that or any that I'm unaware of. And I think a huge part of it is because, you know, you're not on a roller coaster, for example, or you're not in a car driving down the highway at 80 miles an hour. Because usually when it happens, when you put on the headset, and if like in the headset you're moving, but your body is standing still, like your brain just kind of feels like that's out of whack. That's like not supposed to happen. Because in real life, if you're in the car and you're moving, well, the car is moving with you, but in virtual reality, if you're standing still or sitting still, and you're moving really fast, like that just doesn't like make sense to your brain. And so we haven't created experiences like that, which is probably why we haven't had too many complaints about that.
