

Barani Rajakumar: Hey, thanks Jack. My name is Barani Rajakumar, the CEO founder of Transfer Inc. And I have the distinguished pleasure of getting to work with 180 amazing people at the company right now to build out our vision of building a classroom to career pathway and in helping everybody get on a pathway to upward career mobility.


Barani Rajakumar: You know, one of the things I think about is what the traditional pathway is, right? And so a lot of people have this focus on having to get into the right school, like as early as elementary school, like you've got to get into the right elementary school to get into the right middle school to get into the right high school. And then you got to get the right test score if you want to get into the right college and get the right job and it can be like really stressful. But, you know, I think a non-traditional pathway would be something that enables someone to get on to a career pathway or get a job using a different methodology or acquiring maybe a different set of skills using non-traditional methods. So one example that I can think of right here at Transfer, we have a fantastic producer here by the name of Jonathan Kaiser, who actually started off learning graphic design and then didn't end up finishing school and ended up getting a job in the gaming industry and kind of working his way up. And when we were recruiting him, we were just like, wow, this person has like amazing experience. Look at all this stuff that they've done. And so he's now here and leading up, producing our virtual healthcare clinic, which is one of the company's most important product lines.


Barani Rajakumar: Yeah. And specifically at Transfer anyway, we always ask everybody what their zone of genius is. And we ask them, you know, what do you really love about your job? What do you want to contribute to it? We try to find that right fit. And so I think the bottom line is like, you know, everyone has something to offer in this world. It's just like, where can you add the most value, the most helpful and like, let's find the right place for you. So, Barani, before we start recording, you and I were talking about your childhood and your background and sort of, I want to get on tape here for our audience. How did you become a founder? How'd you found a tech company? How'd you become founder of Transfer?

Barani Rajakumar: Yeah, it's a great question because I did not grow up ever thinking about being CEO, founder of anything. You know, one of the things that happened to me when I was younger is, you know, I've got these amazing parents. I was born in India and they immigrated here when I was young. They were raising a family on, you know, $34, $35,000 a year. And so I had to get a job early on in life to help them out. So my first job was actually at Wendy's earning $5.25 an hour. 


Barani Rajakumar: Yeah, exactly. I mean, everybody's got to start somewhere, right? And look at you now. Now you're running podcast. And so what that taught me is just like the value of kind of being independent and being able to contribute. In that case, I was trying to contribute to my family by being less of a burden to simply. And then later on, I end up studying finance and working in finance. And I thought, you know what, I bet you there's a lot of people out there that were like me who just, if they had an opportunity to kind of demonstrate their skills, they'd be able to contribute to their employer, their community, their family. And that became kind of like the genesis of transfers. Like, how do we build a system that helps everyone to get on a career path to upward mobility? And I tried other methodologies of giving back, like literally donating the causes and things like that. And I just thought this might be a more scalable way to solve the problem. And in the early days, you know, people were very skeptical of virtual reality, very skeptical that this very hard problem could be solved. And so I kind of became de facto CEO and founder because nobody else wanted to leave their job to do it.


Barani Rajakumar: Yeah, I think that's a great topic. You know, one of the things that's super important here, and just as we talked about, you know, people who've gotten jobs even at transfer using non traditional pathways. Yeah, what's powerful about that is that that could be like a really great equalizer to the extent that people can learn and earn on the job. Right. That becomes a potentially really powerful force for leveling the playing field for everyone who can find a place that's the right fit for them.


Barani Rajakumar: Yeah, we'll teach you the rest. And also, how would you like to contribute? Like now that you know about what goes on here, like what do you think you can do? What interests you? What excites you? What motivates you in the morning? I think that's very exciting for someone who, you know, may not want to listen to a lecture for hours on end.


Barani Rajakumar: You know, I think that companies have come to the conclusion that great talent can come from a lot of different places. It doesn't have to come from a specific pedigree or specific program or specific geography anymore. Yeah. And what you do have to do those, you got to demonstrate that you have a track record of being curious and focused and being a contributor and that you're interested enough in something that you would go through the trouble of. Go through the trouble of acquiring skills and creating something. And so when employers can see that, that's like a very attractive thing to surround themselves with, right? Because employers are kind of in the business of creating something. And so they always want to be surrounded by other co-creators.


Barani Rajakumar: Yeah. And I also think that there are formal programs as well. So a really well-known program, IBM has launched a program called P-TECH, in which they work directly with high schools to start the training process right in the schools themselves, which I and a lot of people think it's a phenomenal idea.


Barani Rajakumar: Yeah, absolutely. And we hear work with our clients in different states at different states, legislate, oh, you have to do career exploration by this grade or that grade. Even doing career exploration is not the same as working with, especially a company like IBM, but working with any company that gives you an idea of what it's like to go to work every day in that company or a certain type of job at that company, etc. So a program like this sounds like it would do.

Bharani: because for most of them, it's you can walk in off the street, get into an apprenticeship program, they'll teach you what you need to know as you learn to do this job and then get on the job training, et cetera, stuff like that. It's not like, hey, go to college for four years and then come back and get an apprenticeship. It's a different model altogether.

Bharani: Well, what's interesting is that there are some macroeconomic forces right now that are helping force this train. Number one is that you have, the baby boomer generation is retiring to the tune of about 11,000 people per day. And so companies are really feeling a crunch of finding people to work with for the jobs that they have available. Number two, there are a lot of folks out there that are kind of questioning whether or not the traditional higher-end model is for them. And so companies are then saying, hey, like we have to get into this game. We've got to come to the table and help advise, develop, co-create curriculums so that we can get people on a pathway because the last thing we want is for people to graduate high school and just be lost. And so that's a premise of our entire business models. We've been working with workforce development agencies around the country who have already been working with companies for decades and just trying to create this seamless classroom to career pathway so that everyone can kind of find the right home themselves.

Bharani: And so I actually love hearing about the stories on our weekly campfire. But our core focus is on a group of folks that we refer to as undiscovered talent. So they can be young adults, they can be older adults, but they're folks that have a lot to offer. They just may not have the network or company who may not know who they are yet. So for example, we work with reentry programs that help people that were previously incarcerated. They got a pathway to a job. We work with Fortune 500 companies, Fortune 50 companies, Fortune 1000 companies to help folks find opportunities there. And the way we do it is we work with workforce development agencies, employers, and education. So that's high schools and two year colleges in which we deploy what we call career exploration where someone can put on a headset and in VR, try out what a variety of occupations might be like and then kind of enroll in a program that they feel makes the most sense for them and that ultimately leads to job placement. And so we call that the classroom to career pathway and we want to offer that to the millions of people around the world that could benefit from that. And just, you know, Kaiser or myself or you, Jack, anyone just get their first job and get on a pathway to upward mobility.

