
Speaker 2 (Barani Rajakumar): Hey, first of all, thanks for having me, Gary. It's great to see you again. You shared that one of your big takeaways from working at Transfer was a focus on metrics, but one of my big takeaways from working with you was your focus on storytelling. You were our first marketing leader that was hired at Transfer. To be honest, I had no idea what marketing was and how it worked. I still barely have any idea, but it was wise words that you shared with us about the meaning and the impact of telling the story. Thanks for sharing our kudos that the Fast Company recognition, it sounds like our story is getting out there, so we're happy about that. So what that story about Transfer is rooted in creating opportunity for those who may have been shut out by it. So our mission is to help everybody get on a pathway to upward mobility. And that mission originated from a personal experience that I had. My parents raised a family of four on $35,000 a year, and you'd wake up every day just feeling not great. The world was speeding past you and you didn't get to participate in it. So I got my first job when I was 16 years old in the fast food business. And this was in the 90s when everybody said, hey, if you work in fast food, you're on track to go nowhere. And I think what gets lost in that kind of narrative is that people don't realize everybody has a different starting point in life. So I remember getting my first $5, $25 an hour paycheck thinking, I'm king of the world. This is amazing. I get to go to the bank. I get to deposit this check. I get to make some decisions now. Do I want Skittles? Do I want Starburst? I don't know. I've got so many options. I've never had this many options before. So the purpose of transfer is really to help everybody get on that pathway to upward mobility.


Speaker 2 (Barani Rajakumar): Sure. So OKRs, the literal translation is objective key results. And they sound like KPIs, but they're a little bit different in that OKRs, I would venture to say, kind of have like a soul. They can have a purpose versus KPIs could just be a number like profitability or I think you said in your opening Gary, number of Twitter followers or something like that. Right. As a company, kind of true North Star is the number of people that we get on a career pathway to upward mobility. And so the sales that we generate are meant to fuel the innovation so that we can continue to build the product experiences and the platform that one day we hope help everybody on planet Earth get on that pathway to upward mobility. Hopefully we can become the platform that helps everybody get their first job, right? Because you can't get your second job without getting your first job. So that being the objective, there are a lot of kind of KPIs that can fall under that. But they went to the company, you don't have a whole lot of employees. So really to keep it simple, one of the first KRs key results that kind of emerges is adoption rate or growth rate. And you can measure that in a number of ways. How many end users are using the service? How many customers are paying for the service? What is your annual recurring revenue for your software business? And so in the early days, we kind of just stuck to two numbers to keep it real simple. What's the number of people that were helping get on a pathway to upward mobility, which was defined by using the service and then getting a job. And then the second big one was what's the ARR growth, the annual recurring revenue growth, because that was a indication of adoption rate and traction for investors.


Speaker 2 (Barani Rajakumar): Yeah, so I think it's worth just sharing our journey with OKR. First of all, if anyone has not heard about this book or read it, there is a great book, which is written by John Doar called Measure What Matters. In this book, he kind of really lays out the definition of OKRs and gives you a playbook for how to implement it. I think it can be very challenging. In the early days, you might have had just two numbers, but as the company grew, there were more departments and then more people. It became a bit of a challenge to figure out, well, how do you organize everybody's work to kind of focus on one mission and then how do you track that? So we used a project management software called money.com and this was spearheaded by a few people at the company. Essentially what happened in the early days is this thing got so detailed that literally every single person in the company had a project that had a KR that rolled up to their department that then rolled up to the company. And so when you looked at it every quarter, it looked like we had something like 200 OKRs, which makes no sense because that's not how it's supposed to work. You're supposed to have less than five. And today we've kind of revamped the system and made it much more efficient. And so today we have four OKRs. So for this year, for example, for 2024, one of our OKRs is taken care of our people. So there's KRs that we use to measure that. Getting to break even, that's just a really important one. A third one is building out the infrastructure for managers to manage. So now that we have an actual org structure with various layers of managers, being able to give them the data that they need to make decisions is really important. And then the last one is connecting the classroom to career pathways that aligns with our mission. We want to make sure that.



Speaker 1: That's right. What we call the OKRs were not really OKRs. They were more like KPIs. So you had things like how many calls are SDRs making per day. Just more like a, you know, you could call that a KPI. You could also call like a key leading indicator to whether or not we're going to hit our opportunities pipeline and whether or not we hit our, the number of opportunities is going to determine whether or not we're going to hit a certain bookings target and whether or not we hit a certain bookings target is probably going to determine whether or not we're going to get to break even. Right. So all of those are kind of interrelated, but the OKR might just be getting to break even versus all those kind of downstream KPIs and KLIs, key leading indicators might be things that the individual managers or individual teammates manage on their own.

Speaker 2: To prevent it from becoming unwieldy at the executive level, you mentioned we get together as a company once a week. It's much simpler to show the entire company how we're performing against the OKRs because every department is not going to have their counterparts departments, you know, KPIs memorized.


Speaker 2: Yeah. And I think you really highlighted one of the most valuable components of an OKR implementation, which is you can use the data to make adjustments. We live on planet Earth. It's very likely that something will go wrong. And what's really important is what what are the actions that everybody takes when something goes wrong? Like when, you know, you go off track, for example. And I think one of the most important things that any manager, any leader can do is to become very introspective. So rather than kind of point the figure at another colleague or another department and say, hey, it's your fault that we didn't achieve this goal. It's much more important to say, like, well, what's to dissect? Like where in the kind of segmentation of all these interconnected KPIs are we falling short? Because hopefully not every single KPI is falling short. Hopefully a lot of them are are working and maybe there's just one thing that that that isn't working that needs to be fixed.


Speaker 2: I agree. And like that's, you know, to go back to your point about like how we present these numbers company-wide. Because the other thing you would hope to see as a leader is like when when we highlight an area of weakness, you'd hope to see people come together to say, like, okay, let's problem solve. Like what what can we do to improve this metric? Like what do we think is happening as opposed to what, you know, could happen, like, let's say in a toxic environment where people are not problem solving together and set their point of fingers and silo building. And that's that's the opposite of what you want. Right. And so I think OKRs can help you kind of identify not just strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats, but they can also help you identify who's got chemistry on this team. Who's really great at rolling up their sleeves and helping problem solve together versus who's who's likely to kind of not not be helpful.


Speaker 2: I don't know how how good it is at like forcing people to work together so much as it is, is like you it's going to become real obvious who is working together and who is not. And then you have decisions to make about your personnel because 1 thing you can't afford to do, especially if you're if your objective is to be number 1 is you can't afford to have a dysfunctional team because that is a recipe for you to miss on your on your goals and objectives. And it's also a recipe to wake up at work and not be pumped up about about contributing. I mean, what I found is that when even if you have like a really challenging, okay, are like a really steep hill to climb. If you look to your left and you look to your right and you're just really jazz and super excited about the people that you work with, you're kind of like, okay, who cares? Like, I'm excited to go on this adventure with my colleagues because they're fun to work with. And I'm really like the way that they think so. But there is this other kind of like really important element about building a team spirit, team culture and a vibe that I think emerges from having okay, ours and seeing like who really wants to get after it.



Barani: Three best practices. Okay. I think the first one would be to keep it simple. I think if even if you just started with one OKR, that's better than zero, right? Because the intent is to build the the habit. If you can come up with that one OKR and just have everybody on the team look at that one OKR together. And explain what they can do to contribute to that outcome and that key result. That's really that's a great way to start. Every that probably roll into my second best practice, which is everything starts small. I think one of the worst things you can do is try to boil the ocean, try to just make everybody, you know, accept the change on day one. I think that even if let's say, for example, you are you're launching a new product, it would be a little strange to think that when you launched your MVP that 100 percent of the market is going to adopt it. Right. Like normally when you launch a minimum viable product, you're going to look for this like really tiny niche that understands what you're trying to do and that you are solving a pain point for. And I think that same kind of mentality is true when you're managing change within your company or within your organization. So even if you're talking about doing OKRs in your company, maybe all your departments won't embrace it on day one. Maybe you have to start with one department or if you're small enough company, maybe you could do it company one. But the point is, I think all change starts small and think of it as a snowball. You have to iterate. You have to kind of get the feedback of employees and end users. They're going to tell you things that you can do better and then you've got to make those adjustments. So I think an iterative approach to change management is better as opposed to maybe what sometimes you read about in the news or you've experienced at big companies where it's a little more top down. So I'd say those are probably my top two. The third one, you know, everyone's heard the phrase, culture eats strategy for breakfast. I just, I could not agree with that more. In the early days of the company, there were numerous people that, you know, said, hey, these weekly town halls, can you just kill them? Like this seemed like a total waste time. And in reality, in 2020, we then had COVID hit and everybody went remote. And the weekly town hall was the thing that kept everyone connected because everybody saw the progress of the company and therefore sitting at home behind their computer screen. They really didn't have to worry about like, oh my gosh, we're going to go bankrupt tomorrow because it was something that we just talked about very openly, like here are the milestones that we're trying to hit. And then every time we had a celebration, we celebrated it together and that really helped. Today, you know, I think I've heard some people refer to that thing called campfire, refer to campfire as kind of like the heart and soul, the heartbeat of the company. And so I think culture is wildly important. If you focus on your KPIs before you focus on your culture, you've got it backwards.

